**Nikhil Anand Project 2 Reflection**

With this project, it was about getting more comfortable with recursion for me. I’ve programmed in OCaml before, which didn’t have built-in loops. To get around that, we used recursion, which gave me a solid foundation on how to use it. The good part about this project is that it showed that even when you could code loops, it is sometimes better to do recursion. When working on the project, it was also scoped quite well. As mentioned, I’m familiar, but a bit rusty, with recursion and lambda calculus (extension 1) so this was good practice to get caught up again. I think the timing for this mini-project was also quite fair. I got a little tripped on the last project, so I started a bit earlier on this one than before. For unit testing, however, it was not as straightforward as the last project because the functions were creating random outputs, so it's difficult to test a specific output. I added extra unit tests to evaluate_random_function, but not to anything else.

In the dictionary, art is defined as, “the expression or application of human creative skill and imagination, typically in a visual form such as painting or sculpture, producing works to be appreciated primarily for their beauty or emotional power” “Traditional” is then considered to be humans putting their skills towards creating works of art we see today. In this new form of “computational art,” humans are putting their creative skills towards creating programs that make the art we know today. It is the same concept, but the creative energy is just being channeled in a slightly different direction.    

I think computational art is new, exciting, frontier in art of all kinds. Just like any new technology, there will be pros and cons that will take some getting used to. I think that it can be an amazing partnership with humans and technology to create art, but it will need that human touch to make the story or vision something people can relate to. For example, in our work, the computer did the work, but it takes us as humans to interpret and make a story behind the images created. This will also take some planning and patience to not “flood the market” with work. With computers being able to make content so fast, it could be very easy to overproduce work, devaluing and desensitizing work from both computational and “traditional” art.
 
With all this work about to burst onto the scene, it’s important to establish proper ownership and copyright laws for this genre of creation. When thinking of ownership of work with computational art, I am a strong believer that the creator, or creators, of the program, claim ownership of the work, outputted. This is becoming a hot topic in music at the moment, with AI-generated lyrics and songs. My take is that the computer only does what the writer of it tells it to do, so they are ultimately making the content. Additionally, in other autonomous cars, if the car does something wrong, the car isn’t going to court or paying the ticket. The car owner of the company is. Computational should, and I think it will follow this same mindset.
